Mulberry Addendum for PGP

* Using PGP in Mulberry *

In order to use PGP with Mulberry you must have the the Network Associates PGP
5 or 6 package installed on your host machine. The Mulberry PGP installer will
then add PGP5 and PGP6 plugins to the Plug-ins folder and update the installed
copy of Mulberry to make it 'aware' of the plugins.

The PGP desktop software is used to handle all key managements functions. Users
of Mulberry will need to be familiar with this software.

When PGP and the plugins are correctly installed, one PGP plugin item will
appear in the 'About Plugins' dialog in Mulberry. When this occurs, Mulberry
will enable some new UI items that allow you to use PGP:

1) Verify/Decrypt menu command in the Messages menu. This is used to manually
verify or decrypt a PGP signed or encrypted message. It can be used with either
'inline' or 'PGP/MIME' styled messages (see below for more about these types of
messages).

2) Sign and Encrypt buttons are added to the draft window to the right of the
subject line. Turning this on or off will result in a signed and/or encrypted
message.

There are some new preference options:

1) The Security panel in the Preferences dialog allows control over various
options:

'Use MIME Multipart Security' - When turned on, Mulberry will generate
'PGP/MIME' style messages when sending email. When turned off, Mulberry will
generate 'inline' style messages when sending email.

'Always Encrypt to Self' - When turned on, Mulberry will encrypt messages to
the From address in a draft's selected identity. This ensures that the sender
of the message (i.e. you) can also decrypt any copy you keep of it. When turned
off, Mulberry only encrypts the message to the recipients specified in the
draft's address fields.

'Cache Passphrase while Running' - When turned on, Mulberry will store in
memory any passphrases you use to sign or decrypt messages and use them
whenever the passphrase is again needed for a key. When turned off, Mulberry
does not store passphrases.

'Verify Signed Messages when Opened' - When turned on, Mulberry will attempt to
automatically verify a 'PGP/MIME' signed message when the message is opened.
When turned off, automatic message verification does not take place.

'Decrypt Signed Messages when Opened' - When turned on, Mulberry will attempt
to automatically decrypt a 'PGP/MIME' encrypted message when the message is
opened. When turned off, automatic message decryption does not take place.

2) The Identity edit dialog now contains new Security options:

'Sign Messages' - When turned on, selecting the corresponding identity in a
draft message will automatically turn on the 'Sign' button in the draft window.
When turned off, selecting the corresponding identity in a draft message will
automatically turn off the 'Sign' button in the draft window.

'Encrypt Messages' - When turned on, selecting the corresponding identity in a
draft message will automatically turn on the 'Encrypt' button in the draft
window. When turned off, selecting the corresponding identity in a draft
message will automatically turn off the 'Encrypt' button in the draft window.

'Sign with Key:' - Allows a choice of which key to use when this identity is
selected in a draft being signed.

'Default Key' - the default identity's From address is used to find the key.
'From Address' - the current identity's From  address is used to find the key.
'Reply-to Address' - the current identity's Reply-to  address is used to find
the key. 'Sender Address' - the current identity's Sender  address is used to
find the key. 'Other Key' - allows the user to specify an arbitrary email
address to be used to find the key.

* Understanding PGP in email *

PGP allows arbitrary data to be 'signed' and/or 'encrypted' using public key
cryptography. In public key cryptography a user generates a public key/private
key pair. The public key is then made generally available (usually via a 'key
server'), while the private key is kept secret and can only be accessed by
entering a secret passphrase that the user can choose.

When signing a message, the user signs it with their private key. This requires
entering the passphrase to 'unlock' the private key. PGP will then scan the
data being signed and create a 'hash' of the input data. The hash value is
unique for different input data, so that a small change in the input data will
produce a vastly different hash value. The hash value is then encrypted with
the private key.

When verifying a message, the encrypted hash value is first decrypted using the
author's public key. Then PGP calculates the hash of the received message data
and compares it with the decrypted value. If they match, the message is
guaranteed to be unchanged, if they don't then then message content has been
altered, either by accident or deliberately, in transit. In addition, if
verified, then the author of the message is indeed the 'owner' of the public
key used to verify the message. Thus message integrity and authorship can be
confirmed by signing a mesage.

When encrypting a message, the user encrypts it using the public keys of the
recipients. Each recipient of the encrypted message can then use their private
key (after unlocking it with their passphrase) to decrypt the message,
recovering the original content. The encrypted message cannot be read by anyone
else.

Messages can be both signed and encrypted so that the content remains secret,
but the recipients can verify the content as authentic.

There are two styles in which PGP messages can be generated. The old style
'inline' method uses PGP to generate a block of PGP data which is then sent.
The new style 'PGP/MIME' method adds extra MIME parts to the message to
indicate the signature or encrypted data. Mulberry can use IMAP to determine
PGP/MIME messages so this is the preferred format.

--Cyrusoft International, Inc.
September 1999.
